---
layout: default
modal-id: 5
date: 2015-01-15
img: igem.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: March 2015
client: Washington University iGEM team
category: Web Development - Big Data
---
I've done biology research for a while now, and over the years I've noticed some problems.
* The iteration time for experiments range from hours to months.
* Designing an experiment that incorporates the most modern techniques is close to impossible
* The cost, time, and material necessary to prepare an experiment is often larger than those required to perform the experiment.
* Parts of an experiment cannot be automated, so an experiment is limited to the amount of man hours a researcher can dedicate.
* Scientist have created a wealth of data on biological material too large to be taken advantage of due to the above.
* Scientist have their own data, procedures, and notes archived in journals that are not
accessible to those who may want to build on their research.

My most recent researched involved participating in [iGEM](https://www.igem.org/Main_Page). Our
project was to build a [diazotrophic E. coli](http://2015.igem.org/Team:WashU_StLouis).
The science was simple, but carrying out the science while following the iGEM requirements
took much more time than expected. I am building a tool to make biology research simple and easy for iGEM participants and researchers everywhere.

Core Requirements
* Desktop Application
* Data Collection and Management System
* Journaling System
* Protocol Management
* Node Editor for Processing Data
* Simple way to plug data into any web api
* Biobrick Service
* Static Website Generation
* Easy collaboration interface
* Easy outreach interface
* Finance management system
* Materials archive
* *iPhone App supporting as much of the above as possible.*

I will be forking and extending my project [animoo-writer](https://github.com/Dacode45/animoowriter) to
support the above features. Alpha should be released June 1<sup>st</sup>.
